---
layout: post
title: "Magic the Gathering: Thesaurus"
categories: post
excerpt: "This week we learned Natural Language Processing."
ads: true
share: false

---

This week we learned Natural Language Processing. Immediately I thought of scouring famous works of literature, and creating an AI that could write the next bestseller. But I learned that there is a lot more to NLP than meets the eye. It's not just about reading in text data and reproducing it, or a weak facsimile of it, it is possible to do analysis on the text.

I remember in primary and high school, so much of english classes are devoted to analyzing text, themes, and elements of stories. Is it possible that programs and AI can do a better job and give the user a better summary of the information?

One tool of NLP that I never would have thought about is comparison analysis. It is not the first thing to come to mind since comparing thousands of documents against each other is not physically or mentally possible with an average human's brain. But with a computer brain, anything is possible!

I decided to do a project that incorporated comparison analysis with a textual topic I thought might actually have a business case: Magic Cards. Not only is it a huge business, with a revenue stream of $250 million a year and 20+ million players playing, it also could gain a lot from comparison analytics.

Getting the data for every magic card from Kaggle (there was a public dataset, and then some Kaggle users posted a better on in the discussion section), I was able to vectorize each card using TFIDF. Once each card was vectorized I was able to use an Unsupervised Nearest Neighbors model to output the closest 10 cards in the vector space. I then created a Flask Web App with D3.js visualizations to display the information. It also would connect the user to cardkingdom.com to buy the cards if they so chose.

https://github.com/kaushikvasu/Data_Science_Projects/tree/master/mtg_app

Here is a demo of the app:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PGjn2pgMAYI